Jeopardy Web Game

This project is a browser-based Jeopardy game implemented using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It includes multiple preset trivia sets, a complete question-and-answer flow, two-player scoring, and turn-based logic.

The project is hosted online at:
https://abb320.github.io/jeopardy/

It can also be run locally by opening index.html in any modern web browser.

How to Run Locally

Download or clone the repository.

Open the file: index.html

No build tools, servers, or external dependencies are required.

Project Structure

index.html
styles.css
games.js
main.js
game-logic.js
player-logic.js

Each file has a specific role in the application, described below.

File Descriptions

index.html
The primary HTML entry point. It contains all UI screens:

Game selection screen

Board screen

Question screen

Result screen

It loads the JavaScript files in the required order:

games.js

player-logic.js

game-logic.js

main.js

This file defines the structure and containers but does not implement any logic.

styles.css
Defines all styling for the application, including the game board grid, buttons, colors, typography, question card layouts, result screen, player display, and turn indicator.
This file contains only CSS and no programming logic.

games.js
Contains all trivia data used by the game. It defines four game sets:

Nintendo

Pokémon

Minecraft

Blank template for custom sets

Each game includes:

A topic name

Five categories

Five question–answer pairs per category

Example structure:

{
topic: "Nintendo stuff",
categories: {
"Mario": {
"Mario's brother?": "Luigi"
}
}
}

The file attaches the game data to window.GAMES so other scripts can access it.

main.js
Handles board rendering and navigation flow. Responsibilities include:

Displaying the game selection menu

Loading categories and question tiles

Rendering the 5x5 question grid

Handling tile clicks and passing question data to game-logic.js

This file does not handle scoring or answer checking.

game-logic.js
Controls question and answer behavior. Responsibilities include:

Retrieving the correct question and answer for a selected tile

Displaying the question screen

Normalizing user input (lowercasing, removing whitespace)

Comparing user answers with the correct answer

Disabling tiles after use

Switching to the result screen

Calling player-logic.js to apply scoring

Determining whether the player keeps their turn or loses it

This file manages transitions between board, question, and result screens.

player-logic.js
Handles all player-related logic. Responsibilities include:

Storing scores for Player 1 and Player 2

Tracking which player's turn it is

Applying scoring rules

Updating player scores in the UI

Updating the turn indicator display

Correct answers add points and the same player continues.
Incorrect answers subtract points and the turn switches.
